# *Extreme Event Modeling (1.4.17)* Data 
To accomplish the Extreme Event Modeling project objectives we have adopted the following strategy.

The primary goal of our data set development strategy is to identify sets of real power system models that are available for common use across the Extreme Event Modeling project. Benchmarking with real system data is an important component for gaining industry acceptance of the results.

Access to real data is typically restricted by FERC CEII policies. Approval to access FERC CEII data can take as long as 12 months to obtain. While access can be negotiated at the organizational level (national laboratory), ultimately, each individual must sign the CEII agreements. In additional, access to data outside of typical steady-state power flow models requires the negotiation of NDAs with individual utilities. While this team has NDAs in place with our industry partner partners, they are restricted to specific laboratories and scope of use.  Thus, we understand that the development of a common set of data for use across the project will not occur quickly. Moreover, the use of such data in open venues such as peer reviewed papers and conferences is restricted. We have thus identified a three point strategy for managing and developing data sets.

1.	Develop a set of openly available data sets with a sufficient amount of detail for benchmarking and validating the capability of the team. We have developed two large-scale instances that are currently hosted on a share site for the extreme event modeling team.

2.	Each team member will obtain approvals from FERC to receive CEII data. Example processes for obtaining FERC approvals have been documented. 

3.	Each team will sign an NDA with WECC to obtain their 2025 system model with dynamics.  The process for getting the NDA in place has been documented. 

