# *Development of Integrated Transmission, Distribution, and Communication (TDC) Models (1.4.15)* Data 
To accomplish the ``Development of Integrated Transmission, Distribution, and Communication (TDC) models" project objectives of developing an open-source tool for combined transmission-distribution-communication modeling and simulation, we will benchmark the TDC tool on variety of use cases having different problem types, sizes, and scenarios. The data for these use cases span across transmission, distribution, communication, and market models covering steady-state and dynamics time-scales. Most of the data for transmission and distribution is publicly available. Communications data will be generated based on operational practices and literature review. The different types of data the team plans to use in the project is given below:

## Transmission data

  Steady-state
  -----------  
  -- IEEE test systems (9-bus, 30-bus, 39-bus, 118-bus systems)
  -- Reduced order equivalent of the New-England and New York power system
  -- CAISO system (requires FERC NDA)
  -- Simplified WECC 179-bus system
  
  Dynamics
  --------
  -- IEEE 9-bus system (dynamics data available in Chap.7 book 'Power Systems Dynamics and Stability)
  -- IEEE 39-bus system
  -- CAISO system (requires FERC NDA)
  -- Simplified WECC 179-bus system
  -- Default data from GE-PSLF user manual for dynamic models of PV, power electronic load, and three-phase
     induction motor model

## Distribution data

-- IEEE distribution feeders (13-node, 34-node) https://ewh.ieee.org/soc/pes/dsacom/testfeeders/)
-- PNNL taxonomy feeders
-- Representative feeder models from PG&E (available from GridLab-D) and SCE.

## Communications data
-- Communications data is really hard to obtain and there are no publicly available repos. As such, communications data is generated assuming network topology and characteristics. Realizing this important issue, and from guidance from the DOE, the team is putting together a document for gathering and generating realistic communications data.

## Markets data
-- CAISO's Open-Access Same-Time Information System (OASIS) http://oasis.caiso.com/mrioasis/logon.do

## Wind and Solar data
-- NREL's Western Wind and Solar Integration Data set

## Weather data
-- US-TMY2 data set

-- Smart inverter settings
-- Protetion system settings

